Hi reading this lecture.
Where are you going to see how we can't write data to our database in PA server.
So let's go to a real controller.
OK.
Because we have already connected our app with our server.
Right.
So we can actually test to write something to our database and we going to use parts objects.
Either you're a cheat this and as I said before we're going to use this database for any reason like
storage like authentication like writing or reading data.
So we have to make sure that we know how to do that.
So after importing pass you can just come over here and create something called Pass object and this
will drive from P.F. Object class.
So after importing pass you can call this P.F. object.
OK if you open up parentheses it will ask you for a class name.
So this class name is actually like a collection name in firebase.
So rather than collect shells we have classes over here.
So this is like having a table in sequel.
OK so we have a User class right now and we have columns.
We have some key values over here in which we can assign new values with new rows.
And let me show you what I mean.
I'm going to create a first class OK in which we will have a name of a fruit and a calorie welfare fruit.
So after you say pass object you can open the parentheses and write whatever value that you want here
rather than value actually you write a key over here like a name and this name will have something like
Apple.
So this is key value pairing like like we did in the firebase like we have specified the key of a field
and the value of a field in here we have the key of the pass object as a name and the value of that
key as an apple.
So our object will have the column name and value of Apple under that column.
And let me do another example so you can understand that better.
I will go for calories and I'm going to say 100.
So I created an object.
I give it a name.
I gave it a calories and I gave it some respect of values as well.
And now I want to save this.
So if you say pass object save you will see we have a lot of options.
So if you say that save it will throw an error.
So we have to use try catch and everything.
And also this works sync erroneously and in most of the cases we don't want that.
Right.
We want to work with a synchronous tasks so that we don't wait for it to happen and we don't block the
main user interface so that users can actually continue using the app.
So in most of the cases we don't want that we want something within background like this say ring background
it works as synchro nicely.
OK.
So we have a saving background and we have saved in background lit block and this gives us a completion
block and this gives us a callback function within closure and we get to see the result of our action.
So that's what we're going to use and say we eventually.
It means that whenever you have the chance just do it.
OK so in saving background if we lose the internet connection for example we will see an error but in
saving eventually it will just save it eventually when its finds a chance.
So most of the time in any methods in parts we're going to use in background with block because that's
the way to go.
Right.
So let me choose this and hit enter.
It will give you either.
This is successful or not as a boolean.
OK.
So you can just write something like success in here as a variable name and it will give you an error
if there is any on the other side.
So I'm going to name this success and I'm going to name is error.
So I will check to see if error is not nil and if is not nil most of the time we're going to display
an error message.
But right now I'm just going to print the error dot localised description.
OK.
Ls it means that it's successful.
Right now I'm just going to say something like upload that so that we can know this gets uploaded.
OK so let's run this in our simulator.
And here you go.
We have already seen the uploaded in here.
So let's go to our dashboard and let's refresh this page to see if we got the for class.
Here we go we have the fruits class.
So if you click on it you will see we how some columns.
We have some default columns here.
OK like object I.D..
So this is a unique I.D..
And this is created bypass itself.
So every time we create an object it gets its own object idea and this is very useful.
We're going to use that in our code as well.
So this has created app and updated ads so this automatically actually uploads or creates the data itself.
Then we create an object.
So this is very good.
So we can just use this if we want something chronological in our app.
So in here we have the ACL and this is kind of the security rules in firebase.
For example it says that the public can read and write it right now.
And in here we have the name and the calories.
So these are two columns that are created by us.
So here you go we managed to save our first information in our back for app server so we can create
the new column from here we can manually change data from here.
OK we can refresh the data and we can see track what's going on inside of our database.
So let's go back.
As you can see it's very easy to create objects you key value pairings to that object and unsaved them
to the server by just writing a few lines of code.
So it's very user friendly it's very easy to follow along.
Now let's stop up here and within the next lecture we are going to see how we can read data from the
server as about.